Apple Vision Pro headset: What does it do
and will it deliver?
June 7 2023, by Panagiotis Ritsos and Peter Butcher


Credit: Apple Inc.
Apple recently unveiled its Vision Pro headset at the Worldwide
Developers Conference in California. With it, Apple is venturing into a
market of head-mounted devices (HMDs)—which are usually just
displays, but in this case is more of a complete computer attached to
your head—as well as the worlds of virtual reality (VR), augmented
1/5
reality (AR) and mixed reality (MR).
The new Apple product will fuel the hopes of many working on these
technologies that they will some day be routinely used by the public, just
as the iPhone, iPad and Apple Watch helped bring smartphones, tablets
and wearable tech into mainstream use.
But what does the Vision Pro actually do, and how much mass appeal
will it have?
VR immerses users in an entirely computer-generated world, isolating
them to a large degree from their physical surroundings. AR
superimposes computer-generated elements onto the real world while the
latter remains visible, with the purpose of enhancing the context of our
physical surroundings.
A term often used interchangeably with AR is mixed reality, referring to
a set of immersive technologies including AR, that provide different
"blends" of physical and virtual worlds. These three technologies are
often collectively referred to as XR.
The blending of VR and AR seems to be a key part of Apple's thinking,
with the Vision Pro allowing users to adjust their level of immersion by
deciding how much of the real world they can see. This transitioning
between the two experiences will probably be a trend for future HMDs.
The physical world is "seen" through an array of 12 cameras located
behind a ski-goggle-like glass fascia, acting as a lens. When the Vision
Pro is in VR mode, people approaching you in the real world are
automatically detected and displayed as they get close.
A feature called EyeSight also displays the wearer's eyes through the
glass lens when needed, to enable more natural interaction with people
2/5
around them—a challenge for many HMDs.
In terms of technical specifications, the Vision Pro is impressive. It uses
a combination of the M2 microchip and a new chip called the R1. M2 is
running visionOS, which Apple calls its first spatial operating system,
along with computer vision algorithms and computer graphics
generation.
R1 processes information from the cameras, an array of microphones
and a LiDAR scanner—which uses a laser to measure distances to
different objects—in order to make the headset aware of its
surroundings.
More importantly, the Vision Pro boasts an impressive display system
with "more pixels than a 4K TV to each eye." Its ability to track where
the wearer's eyes are looking allows users to interact with graphical
elements just by looking at them. The headset can receive gesture and
voice commands and features a form of 360-degree sound called spatial
audio. The quoted unplugged operating time is two hours.
Wearable 'ecosystem'
Packed, in typical Apple fashion, in curved aluminum and glass, the
headset has an eye-watering price of US$3,499 (£2,819) and represents a
collection of many premium features. But Apple has a history of
developing products with increasingly versatile capabilities to sense
what's going on in their real-world surroundings.
Apple also focuses on making its devices interoperable—meaning they
work easily with other Apple devices—forming a wearable "ecosystem."
This is what really promises to be disruptive about the Vision Pro. It is
also akin to what had been promised and hoped for by pioneers in the
idea of wearable computing back in the 1990s.

Combining the headset with the iPhone, which still forms the backbone
of Apple's ecosystem, and the Apple Watch could help create new uses
for augmented reality. Likewise, linking the headset to many
programming tools demonstrates the company's desire to tap into an
existing community of developers of augmented reality applications.
Many questions remain, however. For example, will it be able to access
mixed reality applications via a web browser? What will it be like to use
from an ergonomic point of view?
It's also unclear when the Vision Pro be available outside the US or
whether there will be a non-Pro version—as the "Pro" part of the title
implies a more "expert," or developer market.

The Vision Pro is a gamble, as XR is often seen as something that
promises but rarely delivers. Yet, companies such as Apple and those
that are probably its primary competitors in the XR domain, Meta and
Microsoft, have the clout to make XR popular for the general public.
More importantly, devices such as the Vision Pro and its ecosystem, as
well as its competitors could provide the foundation for developing the
metaverse. This is an immersive world, facilitated by headsets, that aims
for social interaction that's more natural than with previous products.
Skeptics will say that Vision Pro and EyeSight make you appear like a
scuba diver in your living room. But this could finally be the time to dive
into the deep waters of XR.
This article is republished from The Conversation under a Creative
Commons license. Read the original article.
Provided by The Conversation

Citation: Apple Vision Pro headset: What does it do and will it deliver? (2023, June 7) retrieved
29 March 2024 from https://techxplore.com/news/2023-06-apple-vision-pro-headset.html
This document is subject to copyright. Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private
study or research, no part may be reproduced without the written permission. The content is
provided for information purposes only.

Technical specification:
Capacity1
256GB
512GB
1TB
Display
23 million pixels
3D display system
Micro‑OLED
7.5‑micron pixel pitch
92% DCI‑P3
Supported refresh rates: 90Hz, 96Hz, 100Hz
Supports playback multiples of 24fps and 30fps for judder‑free video
Video Mirroring
Up to 720p AirPlay for mirroring your view in Apple Vision Pro to any AirPlay‑enabled device, including iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple TV (2nd generation or later), or AirPlay‑enabled smart TV

Chips
Graphic image of the M2 chip
8‑core CPU with 4 performance cores and 4 efficiency cores
10‑core GPU
16‑core Neural Engine
16GB unified memory
Graphic image of the R1 chip
12‑millisecond photon‑to‑photon latency
256GB/s memory bandwidth
Camera
Stereoscopic 3D main camera system
Spatial photo and video capture
18 mm, ƒ/2.00 aperture
6.5 stereo megapixels
Sensors
Two high‑resolution main cameras
Six world‑facing tracking cameras
Four eye‑tracking cameras
TrueDepth camera
LiDAR Scanner
Four inertial measurement units (IMUs)
Flicker sensor
Ambient light sensor
Optic ID
Iris‑based biometric authentication
Optic ID data is encrypted and accessible only to the Secure Enclave processor
Secures personal data within apps
Make purchases from the iTunes Store and App Store
Audio Technology
Spatial Audio with dynamic head tracking
Personalized Spatial Audio and audio ray tracing
Six‑mic array with directional beamforming
Supports H2‑to‑H2 ultra‑low‑latency connection to AirPods Pro (2nd generation) with MagSafe Charging Case (USB‑C)
Audio Playback
Supported formats include AAC, MP3, Apple Lossless, FLAC, Dolby Digital, Dolby Digital Plus, and Dolby Atmos

Video Playback
Supported formats include HEVC, MV‑HEVC, H.264, HDR with Dolby Vision, HDR10, and HLG

Battery2
Up to 2 hours of general use
Video watching up to 2.5 hours
Apple Vision Pro can be used while charging the battery
Connectivity and Wireless
Wi‑Fi 6 (802.11ax)
Bluetooth 5.3
Operating System
visionOS
Input
Hands
Eyes
Voice
Supported Input Accessories

Keyboards
Trackpads
Game controllers
Interpupillary
Distance (IPD)
51–75 mm
Device Weight
21.2–22.9 ounces (600–650 g)

Weight varies depending on Light Seal and head band configuration. Separate battery weighs 353 g.

Accessibility
Accessibility features help people with disabilities get the most out of their new Apple Vision Pro. With built‑in support for vision, hearing, mobility, and learning, you can create and do amazing things.

Learn more

Features Include

VoiceOver
Zoom
Color Filters
Hearing Device Support
Closed Captioning
Voice Control
Switch Control
Dwell Control
Pointer Control
Support for Made for iPhone bi‑directional hearing aids
Support for Made for iPhone switch controllers

Other features includes:

A singular piece of three-dimensionally formed laminated glass flows into an aluminum alloy frame that gently curves to wrap around your face.

An array of advanced cameras and sensors work together to let you see the world clearly, understand your environment, and detect hand input.

Speakers are positioned close to your ears, delivering rich Spatial Audio that seamlessly blends with real-world sounds.

Two head bands are included. The Solo Knit Band provides cushioning, breathability, and stretch, and a Fit Dial lets you adjust Apple Vision Pro to your head. The Dual Loop Band features a pair of adjustable upper and lower straps for a precise fit.

A pair of custom micro‑OLED displays deliver more pixels than a 4K TV to each eye — for stunning clarity.

The Light Seal gently conforms to your face, delivering a precise fit while blocking out stray light.

Press the Digital Crown to bring up the Home View, and turn it to control your level of immersion while using Environments.

Press the top button to take spatial videos and spatial photos in the moment.

The external battery supports up to 2 hours of general use and up to 2.5 hours of video playback.1